Modeling how-to guides (#1174)
osohq/oso: docs/content/any/guides/attributes.md

---
title: "Build Attribute-based Access Control (ABAC)"
weight: 1
---

# How to Build Attribute-based Access Control

> While role-based access control emphasizes granting permissions based on roles, you may also wish to grant permissions or roles based on user or resource attributes. **With Oso, you can use attribute-based logic alongside roles.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While [role-based access control (RBAC)](guides/rbac) emphasizes granting permissions based on roles, you may also wish to grant permissions or roles based on attributes of actors or resources. **With Oso, you can use attribute-based logic alongside roles.**
```

  roles = ["contributor", "maintainer", "admin"];

  "read" if "contributor";
}

has_permission(_: User, "read", repo: Repository) if repo.is_public;
{{< /code >}}

The `has_permission` rule above tells Oso to look up the `is_public` attribute on the `Repository` application type in order to determine whether or not someone shoud be granted `"read"` access.
This rule will be evaluated alongside the `"read" if "contributor"` shorthand rule in the resource block, so that a user can read a repository if they have the `"contributor"` role OR if the repository is public.

## Grant roles with attributes

Oso also supports granting users roles based on user or resource attributes. Oso uses `has_role` rules to look up a user's roles in your application. By defining multiple `has_role` rules,  you can customize how users are granted various roles.

For example, you could add a `has_role` rule to the policy above that grants the `"admin"` role to the repository creator:

{{< code file="main.polar" hl_lines="8" >}}
# ...

resource Repository {
  permissions = ["read", "push", "delete"];
  roles = ["contributor", "maintainer", "admin"];

  "read" if "contributor";
}

> has_role(user: User, "admin", repo: Repository) if user = repo.created_by;

Reviewer: I would write this as `has_relation(user: User, "creator", repo: Repository) if user = repo.created_by;` and `relations = { creator: User };` so that you can re-use the `"creator"` relation w/o having to copy the `user = repo.created_by` logic every time.

Reviewer: @leina05 has a great point: `has_role() if <attribute>;` is basically replacing the `has_role()` hook if someone has attributes but not roles in their application.
